# INIT Upstart (or) Booting Process

- When we switch the system on the 1st programme POST will run

- POST 
	Power On Self Test, cpu sends power supply to all the periphiral devices to check the wether those devices are working or not

- Bios performs the intigrite checks.
	1. BIOS identifies the booting device. From that device it loads and executes the MBR boot loader
	
	2. MBR loads and executes the GRUB boot loader
	   MBR=512bytes MBR reside in the 1st bootable disk(446bytes) Partition Table(64bytes) MBR Validation Check(2bytes)
	
	3. GRUB contains details of default booting partition and the location of Kernel and iniird(Initial Ram Disk). 
	   So it loads and executes Kernel and initrd images
	
	4. Mounts the root file system as specified in grub.conf
	   Since init was the 1st program to be executed by Linux Kernel, it has the process id (PID) of 1
	   initrd is used by kernel as temporary root file system until kernel is booted and the real root file system is mounted.
	   It also contains necessary drivers compiled inside, which helps it to access the hard drive partitions, and other hardware.
	
	5. Init identifies the default initlevel from /etc/inittab and uses that to load all appropriate programs.
	
	6. When the Linux system is booting up, you might see various services getting started.
	   Those are the runlevel programs, executed from the run level directory as defined by your run level.
	   After starting all the services we will get the login screen.	

				***That is what happens during the Linux boot process.***

